talk with mark or live.com here for
today's tech tip today we're going to be
talking about camera settings now these
are camera settings that you're going to
be using when shooting homes for
listings with a very very basic
this isn't advanced if you want advanced
there's plenty of other tutorials and
other things on the internet and in
bookstores and whatnot that you can find
and I highly recommend that you look for
those but if you're just starting out
this is for you specifically going to be
talking about three different camera
settings the three most important ones
the three basic settings that you're
going to want to know about or aperture
ISO and shutter speed so let's talk
about aperture real fast aperture is
also known as f-stop and that's what
you'll usually see it when you see it on
cameras F and then a number F 1 point 4
F 5 point 6 at point 9.0 and you know
anything in between now the good news is
about aperture is you really don't have
to worry about it just set it something
in the middle five point six maybe a
little bit lower if you want to let get
more light into the camera but for the
most part you really don't have to worry
about it the two settings that you do
need to worry about when you're taking
photos is called ISO and shutter speed
so let's talk about ISO real fast what
is it well basically it's film
sensitivity to light now granted most
cameras these days are all digital
they're not using film anymore but it's
kind of a carryover from when they were
using film they still use the same
terminology because basically the
concepts the same it's just instead of
film using a sensor what's that mean to
you it means that if you have a higher
ISO you're gonna let more light in
that's really all it means so if you're
in a darker room and you need to let
more light in without using the flash
and you've put in all the lights that
you can but it's still just not wide
enough in the camera turn up your ISO is
gonna basically make the shot brighter
now you'll see here in these examples
got a couple different shots here for
different ISOs ISO settings and you can
see basically the difference in how the
photo comes out depending on how the ISO
setting is okay
now there is one pitfall with ISO that
you're probably going to fall into the
more you take photos and that's called
noise it's also referred to as grain
okay let me show you okay so you'll see
here on this photo let me zoom in real
fast you see all this greenness right
here
that's what's referred to as noise and
that's caused because of the ISO so
there's two basic ways to fix that you
need to fix that before you take the
shot by making the camera settings the
correct way that they need to be or you
can do it in post now I'm using
Photoshop here you don't have to use
Photoshop there's a lot of other
programs that you can use a lot of free
programs even on the internet and
whatnot that you can use and they have
what's called noise reduction so if you
see here if I up the noise reduction did
this you'll see that the graininess is
gone away now the problem with that it
always seems like there's more problems
aren't there the problem with that is
that you'll notice that it does take
away a little bit of the detail the more
noise reduction that you use the less
detail you have but on the plus side all
these photos when you put them into MLS
you're not gonna have them quite as big
as this they're not gonna be fullscreen
photos so you can kind of flesh it just
a little bit you can kind of play around
with the numbers there and see where the
sweet spot is but the better thing to do
is to actually fix it while you're
taking the shot and the way to do that
is to lower the ISO just a tad and enter
in some more lights the other thing you
can do is apply the third setting which
is shutter speed
now what shutter speed basically shutter
speed is how quickly the camera takes a
shot the way the Sherriff works is
basically like a barn door it opens up
you got a sensor back here it opens up
lets the light in okay and then the
sensor takes whatever light is coming
through the lens and creates a photo
with it in this most basic sense shutter
speed refers to how quickly that barn
door opens and closes now if you've got
a really fast shutter speed really
really fast upwards - you can go all the
way up to 4,000 and Beyond on some
cameras if you've got it that fast it's
really really fast this is four
thousandth of a second basically so it's
opening up really fast it doesn't have a
whole lot of time to level a lot light
in and that means that the shot is going
to be a little
darker but this also means that is gonna
be very very crisp because a palm that
you can run into a shutter speed is if
the shutter speed is too low to let more
light in and thus make the photo
brighter it can be blurry I'll show you
what I mean this shot was done with a
lower shutter speed and it was also on a
handheld I tried to remain as steady as
I could but I just couldn't get quite
get it near where I needed to so how to
fix that
get yourself tripod put it on the tripod
if you need to lower that shutter speed
to get more light in and make a brighter
picture put it on a tripod to make sure
that it's as steady as it can be so
remember if you have a dark area you
just can't quite get enough lights in to
increase the ISO lower the shutter speed
for more tech tips or to find out some
classes in your area about technology in
real estate make sure you log on to Mark
Porter live.com and get out there don't
be afraid to experiment